- **[[Module|Modules]]**. Modules are packages of functionality that can be independently developed, tested, and (optionally) deployed. In many situations, modules are developed and maintained by separate teams. A typical Prism application is built from multiple modules. Modules can be used to represent specific business-related functionality (for example, profile management) and encapsulate all the views, services, and data models required to implement that functionality. Modules can also be used to encapsulate common application infrastructure or services (for example, logging and exception management services) that can be reused across multiple applications.
---
- **[[ModuleCatalog|Module catalog]]**. In a composite application, modules must be discovered and loaded at run time by the host application. In Prism, a module catalog is used to specify which modules are to be loaded, when they are loaded, and in what order. The module catalog is used by the **ModuleManager** and **ModuleLoader** components, which are responsible for downloading the modules if they are remote, loading the module's assemblies into the application domain, and for initializing the module. Prism allows the module catalog to be specified in different ways, including programmatically using code, declaratively using XAML, or using a configuration file. You can also implement a custom module catalog if you need to.
---
- **[[Shell|Shell]]**. The shell is the host application into which modules are loaded. The shell defines the overall layout and structure of the application, but it is typically unaware of the exact modules that it will host. It usually implements common application services and infrastructure, but most of the application's functionality and content is implemented within the modules. The shell also provides the top-level window or visual element that will then host the different UI components provided by the loaded modules.
---
- **[[View|Views]]**. Views are UI controls that encapsulate the UI for a particular feature or functional area of the application. Views are used in conjunction with the MVVM pattern, which is used to provide a clean separation of concerns between the UI and the application's presentation logic and data. Views are used to encapsulate the UI and define user interaction behavior, thereby allowing the view to be updated or replaced independently of the underlying application functionality. Views use data binding to interact with view model classes.
---
- **View models**. View models are classes that encapsulate the application's presentation logic and state. They are part of the MVVM pattern. View models encapsulate much of the application's functionality. View models define properties, commands, and events, to which controls in the view can data-bind.
---
- **Models**. Model classes encapsulate the application data and business logic. They are used as part of the MVVM pattern. Models encapsulate data and any associated validation and business rules to ensure data consistency and integrity.
---
- **[[Command|Commands]]**. Commands are used to encapsulate application functionality in a way that allows them to be defined and tested independently of the application's UI. They can be defined as command objects or as command methods in the view model. Prism provides the **DelegateCommand** class and the **CompositeCommand** class. The latter is used to represent a collection of commands which are all invoked together.
---
- **[[Region|Regions]]**. Regions are logical placeholders defined within the application's UI (in the shell or within views) into which views are displayed. Regions allow the layout of the application's UI to be updated without requiring changes to the application logic. Many common controls can be used as a region, allowing views to be automatically displayed within controls, such as a **ContentControl**, **ItemsControl**, **ListBox**, or **TabControl**. Views can be displayed within a region programmatically or automatically. Prism also provides support for implementing navigation with regions. Regions can be located by other components through the **RegionManager** component, which uses **RegionAdapter** and **RegionBehavior** components to coordinate the display of views within specific regions.
---
- **Navigation**. Navigation is defined as the process by which the application coordinates changes to its UI as a result of the user's interaction with the application or internal application state changes. Prism supports two styles of navigation: state-based navigation, where the state of an existing view is updated to implement simple navigation scenarios, and view-switching navigation, where new views are created and old views replaced within the application's UI. View-switching navigation uses a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI)–based navigation mechanism in conjunction with Prism regions to allow flexible navigation schemes to be implemented.
---
- **EventAggregator**. Components in a composite application often need to communicate with other components and services in the application in a loosely coupled way. To support this, Prism provides the **EventAggregator** component, which implements a pub-sub event mechanism, thereby allowing components to publish events and other components to subscribe to those events without either of them requiring a reference to the other. The **EventAggregator** is often used to allow components defined in different modules to communicate with each other.
---
- **Dependency injection container**. The Dependency Injection (DI) pattern is used throughout Prism to allow the dependencies between components to be managed. Dependency injection allows component dependencies to be fulfilled at run time, and it supports extensibility and testability. Prism is designed to work with Unity or MEF, or with any other dependency injection containers via the **ServiceLocator**.
---
- **Services**. Services are components that encapsulate non-UI related functionality, such as logging, exception management, and data access. Services can be defined by the application or within a module. Services are often registered with the dependency injection container so that they can be located or constructed as required and used by other components that depend on them.
---
- **Controllers**. Controllers are classes that are used to coordinate the construction and initialization of views that are to be displayed in a region within the application's UI. Controllers encapsulate the presentation logic that determines which views are to be displayed. The controller will use Prism's view-switching navigation mechanism, which provides an extensible URI-based navigation mechanism to coordinate the construction and placement of views within regions. The Application Controller pattern defines an abstraction that maps to this responsibility.
---
- **Bootstrapper**. The **Bootstrapper** component is used by the application to initialize the various Prism components and services. It is used to initialize the dependency injection container to register any application-level components and services with it. It is also used to configure and initialize the module catalog and the shell's view and view model or presenter.