- The NavigationContext class provides access to the region navigation service, which is responsible for coordinating the sequence of operations during navigation within a region. It provides access to the region in which navigation is taking place, and to the navigation journal associated with that region. The region navigation service implements the IRegionNavigationService, which is defined as follows.
- Because the region navigation service implements the INavigateAsync interface, you can initiate navigation within the parent region by calling its RequestNavigate method. The Navigating event is raised when a navigation operation is initiated. The Navigated event is raised when navigation within a region is completed. The NavigationFailed is raised if an error was encountered during navigation.
- The Journal property provides access to the navigation journal associated with the region. The navigation journal implements the IRegionNavigationJournal interface.
- You can obtain and store a reference to the region navigation service within a view during navigation via the OnNavigatedTo method call. By default, Prism provides a simple stack-based journal that allows you to navigate forward or backward within a region.
```ad-important
The navigation journal can only be used for region-based navigation operations that are coordinated by the region navigation service. If you use view discovery or view injection to implement navigation within a region, the navigation journal will not be updated during navigation and cannot be used to navigate forward or backward within that region.
```